Today science has different rules to explain every event happening around us.
Despite this, even today
man has failed to fully explain every event related to nature with the
theories created by him.
When he
looks at the big galaxies like the galaxic bodies spread in this universe,
then he tries to develop theories related to them.
How does the sun
produce energy? How long is the life of the sun? In
which state will it end? How many planets revolving in its
solar system will be affected by its end? Will the result of its end lead to the
sinking of this
entire solar system? What is the future of our solar
system? What is the future of the solar system that is
present in our galaxy? What is the future of that galaxy? What is the future of
this entire universe?
What is our future?
Who is the creator of us? Thousands of such questions are still
standing in front of him and he is trying to explain them in every way.
When we
face the basic things seen in nature, that is, when
man came across the smallest particles created by nature, that is,
electrons,
protons and their atomic sub particles, then
every theory created by him
collapsed.  While he was crazy with happiness
that he has made such universal laws that
can explain every incident happening in this universe very easily,
when he came across the quantum world which is not visible to the eyes,
all his rules were left in place. The
rules that work on this world visible to the eyes do
not work on the world which is not visible to the eyes and which has created this whole universe. Now in such a situation, the
biggest problem that arose in front of him was
how to understand this quantum world. How does the quantum
world work? How does it
affect our world? How is it
still difficult to explain many incidents? While
searching for answers to all these questions,
man invented quantum physics.
This is such a scientific
field where man does not formulate his theories by
looking at big planets but
searches for rules that work on very small atomic particles, electrons and sub-atomic particles so that he can define this quantum world
well. Electrons and
protons are quantum phenomena and they are
present all around us at all times. They
contribute to every work of ours.
Quantum phenomena are strange and
man  People think that these events are
completely supernatural events but it is not so.
Quantum events are also normal events
but they are tried to be explained with the help of physics like quantum
and it can be explained only with this and
due to the complicated term of quantum world, every event happening here
appears to us like a supernatural event. This is the
reason why
people still think that quantum
physics is useless physics but as
scientific research is progressing, the
events which are not understood till date are being
explained
very easily with the help of quantum physics. The calculations of the
events done by quantum physics are
also very accurate on the basis of scientific experiments. Then man is
forced to think that such
small sub-atomic particles play an
important role in creating our world
and how they affect us at every step.
Quantum physics has become
such a big field today that it
applies to every area of ​​ours.
Today, on the basis of the concept of quantum physics,
Efforts are being made to understand Chemistry, Biology, Astro Physics, Astro Science. The
concepts which
could never be explained by the normal laws of these science streams, the same
questions are being
explained very well by scientists with the help of quantum theory.
This quantum physics has
given us many such inventions which
man could never have thought of. On the
basis of quantum world and quantum concept, man gave birth to laser and transistor
which helped our world to
move forward rapidly. It is the
wonder of quantum world and quantum concept that the computer which we once
considered to be a mere imagination, the computer which we considered to be only a
supernatural phenomenon, today
scientists have made it possible, that is,
scientists have
achieved success in making quantum computers. Quantum world
can explain to us such events of this world in this way which our sense
organs can never see, never understand,
that is, this quantum world full of mystery
and the principles of its development are
very complicated and this is the
reason that it makes it more difficult.
That is why it is
not easy to understand its physics. It is the reason for the occurrence and  It
predicts that something may not happen. It never
agrees that it can happen. It
always works with two options
that something may happen or may not happen. For example,
when a person is
locked in a room, the quantum world
predicts that as long as he is
not being
observed, the person locked in the room is in
two positions. That person is alive at the
same time and
dead at the same time. Such
concepts confuse a person, and at the same time, such
concepts
also solve the rules of the confusing world. Now the question
arises that what is the history of our quantum physics,
how did it start
and on the basis of which principles our
quantum physics and its concepts work. The
field of quantum physics
developed in the late 1800s and
early 1900s. This was a period when
many types of
discoveries were constantly being made to solve many types of problems related to the quantum world, which were called classical
physics.  It could not be explained on the basis of regular principles. At the
same time, it was also discovered
that this light that gives us energy is
made of matter and it is
made up of small packages of energy which are called photons.
Light of a certain frequency,
called photon, works to produce energy in the quantum world. At a
frequency, every photon has the same
energy and these smallest
packets of energy cannot be broken. The
word quantum is a Latin word which means
how much. In reality, the quantum
world, as per its name, always keeps asking the
theories related to this world
how capable they are in explaining the rules of this world. As soon as the
quantum world came into existence, its
concept changed all the notions that we had already made regarding the atom.
From the beginning, we
see that every thing that exists in this world is
made up of the smallest unit of matter, atoms, and these atoms are
surrounded by electrons from all sides. These
electrons
always keep revolving around the nucleus of the atom. It is
exactly like
All the planets in our solar system revolve around the sun
in their own orbit. The
initial atomic science model
defined electrons as particles, but as soon as modern
quantum physics came into existence, it
tried to explain how the electrons revolving around atoms are present inside the orbital.
Quantum physics
proved on the basis of mathematical calculations
that electrons can be
present at more than one place at any given time in every given range.
Due to this, when electrons
gain energy or lose energy, they
move from one orbital to another very easily,
but they never exist between these orbitals,
that is, either they will
remain in their own orbital or they will
exist in the orbital above or below them. The theory
of the activity of these particles played a
very important role in the development of quantum physics.
This principle
came to the fore in the early days of the development of quantum science. At
that time, this theory described the results of an experiment.
Explaining that light and matter have the
properties of both particles and waves. It
depends on how they are being measured.
Today we know
that these different forms of energy are neither
particles nor waves. They are
special quantum matters which
cannot be easily bound by any theory.
According to the wave particle duality principle, all substances have the
properties of both particles and waves.
This is a basic concept of quantum physics in modern quantum physics. At the
stage when this world is
seen or measured or
felt by humans, at that stage
any object can either be a particle
or show the property of waves. It is not
that the same object is a wave
and the same object is a particle.
This does not happen at the very micro level of atoms,
but when an attempt is made to understand their physics,
it comes to light that all the matter
and light
show the properties of particles.
Sometimes they show the properties of waves,
in such a situation the situation becomes very strange
because quantum physics defines some events on the
basis of the wave properties of light, while
it defines some events
on the basis of particle properties. In
this way it is very difficult to understand
when any thing will be waves and when it will be
particles, but one thing is clear from this that
every thing is both, that is, it is
exactly like two sides of a coin
where there is head on one side and tail on the other.
When the toss is done, the possibility is
of both, but what we see
or what is in front of us is the result.
Now if the
result in front of us is head on tossing, it does
not mean that the coin does not have tail and when the
toss is tail, it does
not mean at all that there is no head,
both the properties exist with it, but
it depends on how we are
measuring the events. These two things are
opposite to each other, but
without one of the two, the other
cannot exist, that is, both are necessary.
Otherwise, matter or matter will not exist.
Now if we talk about the ancient Greek philosopher Rastas, while
telling us about the nature of light, he said that
light acts like a wave in the air, while on the
other hand, another Greek
thinker Democrat gave a statement contrary to this and
said that whatever we can see in this universe,
all those things are
made up of particles, even the
light coming to us is also made up of particles in a way, in
this way, some philosophers
call light as a wave property, while
some philosophers call light as a particle property,
this kind of dilemma
continued till the 19th century. Slit experiment can be done to find out the wave and particle property of any matter.
According to this, when two or more waves
collide with each other, they create a diffraction
pattern, the same is seen with the range of light,
yet Sir Isaac
Newton believed that light is made up of particles
and he
also tried to put his thinking in front of the world, while
he also tried to explain it.  He also tried to explain the nature of light
but the scientists of that time did
not want to accept this fact but
as time passed scientists
started accepting that light is just
particles and along with this they
also said that light also has wave properties.
In the 19th century itself,
a Scottish scientist James Maxwell discovered
four equations to explain the nature of light.
On the basis of these equations, the
wave property of light was used to explain the properties of light.
Along with this, he also defined that
light is actually an electromagnetic
wave. On the contrary, when research was being done on atoms,
on the basis of the results, scientists started feeling that
atoms and small sub-atomic particles like
electrons are just particles. Seeing this,
scientists
started doing more research on atoms rapidly. After this,
another new theory came to the fore which is called atomic weight. By
developing such a hypothesis, scientists had almost accepted the fact
that everything is
made up of parts because everything is made up of
atoms and atoms are particles.  In reality, it is
just a particle and inside these atoms,
many small
particles are found. Due to this,
atoms also have their own weight.
In the 19th century itself, scientists were doing their research on black bodies.
Scientists were studying the electromagnetic radiation produced by black bodies and
initially wanted to make a mathematical model of it.
Despite making continuous efforts for this, they were facing failure.
When we look at sound and other events,
then we come to know that whenever
sound waves are produced from an object,
its wavelength depends on the space present in that object
because these
waves get a chance to be formed in that space. We
can understand it in this way that when we
play the flute, the melodious sound coming from that flute, that
is, its wavelength is
produced in the empty space in the middle of the flute, that
is, sound depends on space.
In thermodynamics, we all have
read a principle very well that the
amount of energy we use,
we also release the same amount.  This is
called the law of thermal equilibrium. In this way, on the
basis of both the concepts, scientists considered the black
body on the basis of thermal equilibrium to explain it.
They thought that the
radiation should also be visible in infinity wavelength
and should be infinity, but when the
black body radiation was measured, it was
not so because
nothing like this happens in electromagnetic waves. In the year 1900,
a German scientist Max
Planck solved this problem of the world.
He said that when an
electromagnetic radiation or
electromagnetic energy
falls on the surface of a black body, then the molecule of that black body
absorbs electromagnetic energy, due to which it comes to its
excited position and when that
particle collects enough energy,
then it releases that energy in the
form of electromagnetic waves and comes to a
position of stability.
German scientist Max Planck
gave a formula for this which is written as e = av.
In this formula, e is energy,
b is the wave frequency and h is a
constant value.  When
this concept of Max Planck was
applied to black body particles, it became
completely clear that
electromagnetic energy was being released by excited molecules.
This created a stir in the whole world
because this was the first time
it was proved that light acts like a particle
because before this light was
considered to be waves only. This
created a problem that it became
difficult to understand when light
shows the property of waves and when it
shows the property of particles. Planck himself was
not ready to accept
that light shows the duality property of waves and particles.
He
said on this principle of his that the
calculations done by his principle
can be calculated correctly but it is possible
that there is something wrong in his maths. But
as time passed, the
research done in the coming decades
proved that there was no mistake in Max Planck's
maths, rather light itself was
showing the duality property.
Many scientists  Planck agreed that
light can never be a particle and
for this he started looking for some other new ways
but the greatest scientist of the century
Albert Einstein had
accepted that light shows particle property and in the
year
1887 electricity flow is produced.
Similarly, in 1901 Nikola Tesla also
saw this in one of his experiments. He
saw that electricity was being produced when
electrons started coming out of the metal due to light. The
very next
year after Nikola Tesla, i.e. in 1902, Philip Lenard
saw in his research that if light
of a higher wavelength is
thrown on a metal, then
electricity is not supplied from it, no matter
how much light is thrown,
whereas this happens very easily even with a light light of low wavelength.
This
effect was called the electric light effect. For
years scientists could not
find out
why electrons were coming out from a metal due to low wavelength, whereas
electrons were not being released even after throwing more light of higher wavelength on the same metal.
Einstein solved this problem
by Max Planck's theory.
He said that light is actually a
particle and every
particle of light has the energy calculated by Planck,
but here
wavelength and frequency have a completely opposite
relationship, that is, when the wavelength is very
high, the frequency of the light particles will be
low and due to this their
energy will also be low. On the other hand, if the
wavelength is low, the frequency of the light particles will be
high and due to this
their energy will also be high. In this way,
this puzzle was solved very easily that
why no matter was showing electrolyte effect at high wavelength.
As soon as a little light of low wavelength
fell on any metal, it would have very
high energy and due to this,
electron particles would start releasing from the matter due to low wavelength light. At the same time,
high wavelength means very
low energy and due to this,
even if more light is thrown due to low energy, then the electron particles start getting released from the matter.  For the theory that
electron particles are not released from matter,
Albert Einstein was
awarded the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1921
and on the same concept, the
Nobel Prize for Physics had already been awarded to Max Planck in 1918.
Another
theory, super position, has made a very
important contribution in creating the basic concept of quantum physics. This concept
makes quantum physics quite typical.
We can understand it in this way that when we
try to touch the surface of a pond from two different points at the same time, then waves emerge from each point and
start spreading towards the outer surface. In
this way, these waves, on interacting with each other,
form a very complicated pattern where both these waves
meet. In this way, the
meeting of waves is called super position for waves. In
this way, in quantum science,
similar properties are also found in sub-atomic particles like electrons and photons,
which can be added to each other and in
this way they form a superposed position
in quantum physics.  Quantums are
mathematical. They are defined as any equation
that
describes the possibilities of any matter present in any state. Quantum
mathematical equations provide information about the possibility of an electron
moving at a particular speed or
being at any particular place.
When an
electron is in any one position,
different states can be
considered as different results, each of which has a
special possibility of being observed. One can be said to be
in a super position of two different speeds
or at two different places simultaneously, that
is, it can be said that the
electron can be present at two places simultaneously.
This concept of super position can
take the concept of quantum computer much further. It is
very difficult to imagine this,
like Schrödinger's cat which is
locked in a box.
A radioactive element is also present in that box.
When it is locked, there is a
possibility that either the cat is dead
or still alive. The
theory of quantum physics says that the
cat is alive at the same time.  It is alive and dead
and will remain so until we open that box and
look at it. The same happens in the quantum world as
well. An electron
remains in all its possible positions until it is
not being observed and when we
measure it, it appears to
us in any one of its possible positions. The
super position
can be understood in this way that there is a question in mathematics,
x = 4. When we solve this equation,
we get
one answer of this equation x = e + 2 and the other answer is -2. In
this way,
two different answers come for the same question and both the answers are
correct for this equation. In this way,
both the answers obtained are
super posed for this mathematical equation. Now the
question arises that
how do scientists detect the super position of any elements?
Many experiments have been done by scientists to prove
that there is definitely a super position of an element.  The
position is the light we see  The light
which is present around us is a
combination of many types of positions.
It has pixels and valleys which
rotate it in different directions.
In other words, we can say
that light in a super position of this differently
polarized state changes when these rays of light
interact with their surroundings.
We
can understand it in this way. We take two filters
which permit light to enter vertically.
Both the filters are at a
little distance from each other and they are
placed in front of any light source.
Here the behavior of light is different at different positions. So
when both the
filters are in vertical position, then the
light passes completely through both these filters.
But as soon as one filter is
rotated a little and
it is rotated by about 45 degrees, then the
amount of light passing through it is halved
and when it is rotated to an angle of 90°, then no light passes
through it. In
this way, if we assume
that there is no super position of light, then the light passes through both these filters.  If there was no position, then
as soon as the second filter is
rotated by an angle of one degree, the light should have
stopped completely because the
light coming out of the first filter is
vertically polarized, but
now we make this experiment a little
complicated and now a diagonal filter is placed between the
vertical filter and the horizontal filter of light, in
such a case only a small amount of light is
allowed to pass and this also
happens due to the super position of the light, the new
filter allows the light coming from the horizontal filter to
pass at 50 because the new
filter is also diagonal relative to the vertical center
and the horizontal filter will
allow only the light to pass at 50. In this
way, the work of resetting the super position of the light is done by the diagonal filter, due to
which there is a
greater possibility of it being vertically horizontal. Uncertainty makes quantum physics
more complicated. The
Uncertainty Principle believes
that we measure the speed of every object moving in our daily life.  We
can do this and at the same time
we can also find out where it is located, but
this is not possible in the quantum world.
A principle called Uncertainty works with the particles found there,
which makes it very difficult to find out at
what speed a particle is moving
and where it will be found. So, the principle of Uncertainty, formulated by German
physicist and Nobel Prize winner
Heisenberg in 1927,
says that the
position and speed of any particle, such as the
position and speed of any photon or electron,
cannot be measured simultaneously with accuracy. The more we
reduce the position of a particle,
the less we will be able to know about its speed. So,
we
can explain it in other words in this way that if we
make a turtle of the size of an electron,
then in such a position we
can calculate only one of the two, either its speed or its position, with accuracy.
If we try to measure the speed and location of that turtle at the same time, then
it is not possible.  No, in this
way, it
keeps getting complicated on the basis of the principles of quantum physics.
Similarly, the quantum entanglement theory makes this quantum physics the
most complicated. To study
quantum
entanglement,
scientists try to create two entanglement particles
using a special type of crystal. In
this way,
two entangle particles made of the same material are
sent to different places where an
attempt is made to measure them together.
If we believe that the
spin of an entangle particle at one place is up, then the spin of
its entangle particle placed at another place will
automatically go down. But if we
change the spin of the up spin antangle particle and make it down, then the
spin of its entangle particle placed at another place will automatically go down. At this time, it
seems that both these particles are talking to each other
because they were transferring information at a
speed many times faster than the speed of light. Even
when the
entangle particles are kept very far away,
they remain entangled in the same way.
If we believe that both the entangled
particles are transferring information faster than the speed of light, then that principle of
Albert Einstein's Special Theory of
Relativity will be completely
over, in which he said that the maximum speed of transfer of
any information in this space
cannot be more than the speed of light. Now in such a situation, it becomes
very difficult to understand how
both the entangled particles were
sharing information with each other,
but if scientists are to be believed, the
principle of relativity does not end here.
Scientists explain this by saying that entanglement
particles exist
only in combined position, that is, if we come to
know that the spin of one entangled particle is
up, then we can tell that the spin of the other
entangled particle will be down.
We can understand this in a better way.
Suppose if we have an energetic
particle, that is, a photon, we can
separate its spins from the other entangled particle.  We can make entangle particles
because Einstein's theory is equal to
mc1 allows us to
convert energy into mass,
but in our universe some rules
work in such a way that they can never change. As
we know that photons are such
particles which have no charge,
so the rule of our universe
says that if we make any two
different entangle particles from photons, then the
sum of the charges of both of them should also be zero.
This means that if we
make an electron from a photon, then it
means that an opposite positron will be formed with it.
We know that the charge of electron is
minus and the
charge of positron is plus. When we
add both, both signs will
cancel each other out, so the
charge of both will become zero. In this way, we
can tell that if the
charge of one of the two entangled particles formed is
minus, then the charge of the other particle formed will be 100%
plus. In this way, the
principle of relativity is explained very well here also.  The
most surprising thing about quantum physics is that whenever
we talk about any matter, it
exists in all its possible positions and
it remains in all its possible positions until
it is measured
and as soon as we measure it, it
appears to us in one of those possible positions.
We can understand this very easily through a double slit experiment.
Scientists
tried to understand this thing through a double slit experiment. Scientists
bombarded electron particles on a single
slit and on the screen, they found that
after coming out of the single slit, the electron particles
showed only one line on the screen.
Now scientists
decided to do it with a double slit, but as soon as
scientists did the experiment with a double slit, the
results were very
surprising because when at that time
someone was measuring the bombardment of electron particles
or was watching them, they were showing
two lines on the screen according to the double slit,
but as soon as those
particles were not seen, they showed two lines on the screen.  When I was looking at it, the
results were very surprising
because at that time the results were showing that the
electrons were showing a lot of lines.
This means that when the bombardment of electrons was being
measured,
even after passing through the double slit,
double lines were visible on the screen. This means that at that
time the electrons showed particle properties,
but as soon as no one was measuring them, the
behavior of the electrons was like a wave particle. In this way,
it was proved very well
that any particle remains in its super position
until it is not being measured. As soon as
it is measured,
it starts appearing to us in one of its super positions. So in
this way,
quantum physics provides us with a lot of interesting
information which
helps us to understand this wonderful world of ours. The
theory that explains quantum physics makes it even more complicated.
It makes it so
complicated that it seems
that the quantum theory itself is wrong, but
later when the results come out, the
theory always proves to be correct. This means that  That
all the things which we can see with our eyes may or may not be the same when we close our eyes
because at that time they are present in their super position. So we will
meet with this very
soon and till then stay connected with such documentaries
on Infinity Smart
[Music]
Thank you